Add CMAKE option for optimizing performance of benchmarks (#3140)
nest/nest-simulator: doc/htmldoc/installation/cmake_options.rst

For more details, see the :ref:`Python binding <compile_with_python>` section below.

> .. _benchmark_cmake:

Author: ```suggestion
.. _performance_cmake:
```

> Performance and energy saving in benchmarks
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
> For benchmarking, we recommend that the following options are used to improve performance.
> 
> +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
> | ``-Dwith-optimize="-O3; -march=native"`` | optimized for making code as fast as possible |
> |                                          | for the specific type of CPU that you're      |
> |                                          | using to compile NEST                         |
> +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
> | ``-Dwith-defines=-DNDEBUG``              | disables debugging of code                    |
> +------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
> 
> .. note::
> 
>    These options should *only be used after* you have performed several simulations of a given model with the
>    ``-Dwith-optimize="-O2"``  option.

Reviewer: I would not tie this to benchmarking so closely, it is also relevant for scientific simulations requiring large numbers of runs. Here an alternative suggestion (I would also change the `_benchmark_cmake` tag to `_performance_cmake`). I hope I got the formating right, it looked decent in Emacs with fixed-width font.

```suggestion
Maximize performance, reduce energy consumption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The following options help to optimize NEST for maximal performance and thus reduced energy consumption.

+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``-Dwith-optimize="-O3 -march=native"``  | Activate most compiler options that do not    |
|                                          | affect compliance with IEEE754 numerics and   |
|                                          | optimize for CPU type used                    |
+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``-Dwith-defines=-DNDEBUG``              | Disable all ``assert()`` statements in NEST   |
+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. note::

   * In our experience, gains from these optimizations are not very large. I can still be sensible to test them,
     especially if you are going to perform large numbers of simulations.
   * Your particular use case may touch upon corner cases in NEST execution that our extensive test suite has
     not covered. Internal consistency tests in NEST in form of ``assert()`` statements can help to detect such
     corner cases. Using the optimization options above removes these internal checks and thus increases the
     risk that NEST will produce incorrect results. Therefore, use these options *only after you have performed
     multiple simulations of your specific model with default optimization settings* (i.e., ``-O2``) and assertions
     thus in place.
   * Using ``-march=native`` requires that you build NEST on the same CPU architecture as you will use to run it.
   * For the technically minded: Even just using ``-O3`` removes some ``assert()``s from NEST since we
     have wrapped some of them in functions which get eliminated due to interprocedural optimization. ```

For more details, see the :ref:`Python binding <compile_with_python>` section below.

.. _performance_cmake:

Maximize performance, reduce energy consumption
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 

The following options help to optimize NEST for maximal performance and thus reduced energy consumption.

+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``-Dwith-optimize="-O3 -march=native"``  | Activate most compiler options that do not    |
|                                          | affect compliance with IEEE754 numerics and   |
|                                          | optimize for CPU type used                    |
+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+
| ``-Dwith-defines=-DNDEBUG``              | Disable all ``assert()`` statements in NEST   |
+------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    * In our experience, gains from these optimizations are not very large. I can still be sensible to test them,

Author: ```suggestion
   * In our experience, gains from these optimizations are not very large. It can still be sensible to test them,
```

     especially if you are going to perform large numbers of simulations.

>    * Your particular use case may touch upon corner cases in NEST execution that our extensive test suite has

Author: ```suggestion
   * Your particular use case may contain edge cases during NEST execution that our extensive test suite has
```

>      not covered. Internal consistency tests in NEST in form of ``assert()`` statements can help to detect such

Author: ```suggestion
     not covered. Internal consistency tests in NEST in the form of ``assert()`` statements can help to detect such
```

     corner cases. Using the optimization options above removes these internal checks and thus increases the
     risk that NEST will produce incorrect results. Therefore, use these options *only after you have performed

>      multiple simulations of your specific model with default optimization settings* (i.e., ``-O2``) and assertions

Author: ```suggestion
     multiple simulations of your specific model with default optimization settings* (i.e., ``-O2``), which leaves the assertions
```

>      thus in place.

Author: ```suggestion
     in place.
```

   * Using ``-march=native`` requires that you build NEST on the same CPU architecture as you will use to run it.

>    * For the technically minded: Even just using ``-O3`` removes some ``assert()``s from NEST since we

Author: ```suggestion
   * For the technically minded: Even just using ``-O3`` removes some ``assert()`` calls from NEST since we
```

>      have wrapped some of them in functions which get eliminated due to interprocedural optimization. ```

Author: ```suggestion
     have wrapped some of them in functions, which get eliminated due to interprocedural optimization. 
```
